# graphiti-graphql

Automatically generate a GraphQL schema from your [Graphiti](https://www.graphiti.dev) resources. Supports queries (including relationships/sideloads), filtering, sorting, and CRUD mutations.

## Status

This gem is in alpha/beta. It should generally work as advertised, but may not work as expected for particular use cases, especially with uncommon Graphiti configurations. You should carefully validate that it works with your particular use case.

Currently provided:

* Queryable schema for all of your Graphiti resources (including relationships/sideloads)
* Filtering and sorting (via the `filter` or `sort` arguments on any list relation)
* Create, update, and delete mutations for each resource

Not supported (yet):

* Only the built-in Graphiti attribute types are supported; fields with a custom type are omitted from the GraphQL schema
* All fields are denoted as nullable in the GraphQL schema, even if in practice some fields are guaranteed to have a value
* Similarly, no mutation arguments are required in the GraphQL schema, even if they are required by an underlying model validation
* There isn't a (good) way to extend the generated GraphQL schema to add extra types or mutations.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'graphiti-graphql', git: 'https://github.com/aha-app/graphiti-graphql.git'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

## Usage

1. Include the gem in your Graphiti `ApplicationResource`.

```ruby
# app/resources/application_resource.rb
class ApplicationResource < Graphiti::Resource
  include Graphiti::GraphQL::Resource

  # ...
end
```

2. Add `graphql` to any resources which should be available as a top-level queryable resource in GraphQL.

```ruby
# app/resources/post_resource.rb
class PostResource < ApplicationResource
  graphql

  # ...
end
```

`graphl` accepts optional keyword arguments to configure how the resource is available in the schema. All of the options default to `true`.

```ruby
graphql(
  # Should the resource be available in the GraphQL schema?
  # Setting to `false` is a shorthand to set all of the following
  # values to `false`.
  available: true,

  # Should the resource be queryable as a top-level entry in the GraphQL
  # schema? If `false`, the resource may be queryable as a relationship
  # from another entry resource, but will not be queryable on its own
  # at the top level.
  entry: true,

  # Should the resource be queryable at all? If set to `false`, the
  # resource will not be queryable anywhere in the schema.
  queries: true,

  # Should the resource be mutatable? If set to `false`, CRUD mutations
  # will not be generated for the resource.
  mutations: true,

  # Should the resource's relationships be queryable? If set to `false`,
  # the resource itself will be queryable, but none of its sideloads will
  # be queryable. If set to an array, only the named sideloads will be
  # queryable.
  relationships: true,
  # or
  relationships: [:post, :comments]
)
```

You may also invoke `graphql` in your `ApplicationResource` to set global options -- for example, including `graphql mutatable: false` in your `ApplicationResource` will prevent mutations from being generated for any resource.

3. Run the [graphql-ruby](https://graphql-ruby.org/getting_started) generator and follow their setup. Once you've got a GraphQL controller, resolve queries through the autogenerated Graphiti schema instead of the default stub that graphql-ruby providers:

```ruby
# app/controllers/graphql_controller.rb
class GraphqlController < ActionController::Base
  def execute
    # ...

    # By default, graphql-ruby will generate you a schema:
    result = YourAppSchema.execute(query, variables: variables, context: context, operation_name: operation_name)

    # Replace it with:
    result = ApplicationResource.graphql_schema.execute(query, variables: variables)

    # ...
  end
end
```

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/aha-app/graphiti-graphql.

## Credits

* The code for this gem was originally based on [wade-tandy/graphiti-graphql](https://github.com/wadetandy/graphiti-graphql).
* Some testing patterns and fixtures were borrowed from Graphiti itself.

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
